They play it through and then they get a little
closer and a little closer. And all this time, if
you don't go through it, you can't. I don't have the
words really to describe it. But when it's over and
you walk back to your dormitory in complete
silence, I mean, you don't hear anybody, you don't
hear any sound anywhere. And it, all kind of
thoughts are going through your mind. Do you
remember going to Muster before the war? No, sir.
Almost no one does. Almost no one remembers
Muster. So I'm getting the impression that that
Muster at Corregidor kind of changed that
entirely. And I've been told by two or three people
that one of the reasons for that muster in the first
place was to broadcast back to the families that
certain young men in the tunnels on Corregidor
were still alive. that the War Department
encouraged them to give away to get that message
back. All right, what about Bonfire? Do you
remember Bonfire? Oh, yes, I remember Bonfire,
but Bonfire was,
I guarantee the people in Brazos County didn't
like to see Bonfire come along because we just, we
grabbed up any kind of wood we could anywhere, and
old sheds and i don't remember anybody ever
tearing down a new barn or anything like that but
how long did y'all work on it
uh three four weeks and it was held on the drill
field uh i'm trying to think yeah yeah on the drill
field And there was always an outhouse? Oh, always
on the top. Oh, yeah. Yeah, always an outhouse. And
I had to think a minute where the site of it, but I
remember now that's where it was on the drill field
because you could come in from Melbourne Road and
circle around it. Well, you couldn't circle
around either. You could come up one side. Yeah,
you could, you could, you could. And we had, I know
we had guards out there because after
it got up old foot high or so where we had guards
every night and freshmen had to guard. But nobody
tried to burn it, did they? Not my freshman year.
Not my freshman year. Did you attend a
commencement in those days, an Aggie
commencement? No, I didn't. okay i did not all
right so you go away to the war and you said you're
going to tell me about uh not coming back to to a m to
finish your degree oh oh i uh i was injured in the
second world war that's a pretty poor excuse but uh
i when i i didn't know i was in the sir in the hospital
a long time And I didn't really know what I wanted to
do. And I
finally went, got back to Laredo, make up my mind
and had a couple of job offers and
I tried one and took another. And
always halfway regretted that I didn't make that
effort. And then, what I did do was, when I finally
retired, which was in 1980,
I decided, I believe I'll go back, Texas A&M, and
Maybe in, you know, maybe it'll take me a year and a
half. But what the hell, I don't have anything to
do.
And so I called my friend Ed Cooper.
And I said, Ed, check up and see what I can do. I said,
I don't care what I get the degree in, anything I can
do.
He said, I'll see what I can do. Well, he called me
and he says, Porter, he says,
I want to tell you, he says, you're going to get a
letter from me. And he says, I didn't want you to
think I was hiding, but not calling you, but he
said, I'm just calling you to tell you that I'll
support you in whatever you want to do." But he
says, just read the letter. Okay. And he says, this
is one of the hardest letters I ever had to write for
her. He says, you know, he says, it's been so long
since you took any of those courses. And he says,
other than giving you some allowance for being in
the service and getting certain military things
and so on and so forth, says none of the courses you
took that are that far back
would count towards a degree in today's world. So
he says, you'd just about have to start at scratch.
Well, I wanted to do, but I didn't want to do it that
bad, so I dropped it right there. Right now, don't I
recognize that ring? Yes, but let me tell you, when
we went into the service, our class,
everybody that was classified
as a middle of the road junior,
were given permission to get an Aggie ring. I
didn't know that. And there's no, I don't know of
any I remember. Who made that decision, do you
know? Texas A&M made that decision. Was it an
administrative decision? I have no idea, but I
know that it was made and we were. How much did it
cost, do you remember?
It was around $60. A lot of money. A heck of a lot of
money. I had to pay for it in four installments.
Yes, sir. And that's your original? That's my ring
right there. Do you have any good ring stories?
Well.
Where you lost it and it was found or somebody in
some unusual circumstances recognized it? No.
Oh, I've had worlds of people recognize it, and
more or less like you they do. mine is worn so that
they'd say, isn't that an Aggie ring? My ring, at
that time they didn't make the ring that they do
now. This ring had too much gold in it and it was too
soft. And I put all the wear on that ring and the
first three years I had it nearly. But I tell you, I
wouldn't part with it. right now what so far what
have we left out about your student days that we
should have included i think we've probably
included more than then it's going to be
worthwhile i i did as far as student days i can't
think of a heck of a lot more Can you look back now and
realize some life-changing people or events from
your A&M student days? Somebody that did
something that affected your life?
No, not in that respect, but... A lot of the people
that I met then did
things over the years that caused me to change my
life.
As I mentioned earlier, when I got out of A&M was the
people I got to know. and the connections with
them. And when I say connections, I don't mean that
you're looking for something. True, friendly,
friendship connections where they just thought
of each other and felt like doing things for each
other and so on and so forth. Let me tell you a story
about Ed Davis. I won't take any more of your time,
but I want to. No, no, no, I'm glad. Ed's
mother and father were great, great, great
people. And we spent nearly every weekend in
Wichita Falls when we were up at Fort Sill, he and
Dickie and I. He and Dickie were roommates at A&M,
by the way.
When he had gotten married, he and Janita came to
Laredo, and they were going to Monterey on their
honeymoon.
And they
came over and I treated them to dinner and so on, and
the next day they went to Monterey.
Well, I think that was a, I'm not sure if it was a
Friday or a Saturday, but early Sunday morning
over at the place I get a telephone call from
Monterey. He says, Garner? Yeah. He says, this is
the head. And I said, yeah, what can I do for you? He
says, well, I'm down here in Monterey and says, I
done run out of money. He says, I don't know what I'm
gonna do. And I said, well, I tell you what, I said,
Ed, there's a, I says, it's 10 o'clock. I says,
there's a bus leaves here at 11. I said, now
transport this Del Norte. Can you remember that?
He said, yeah. I says, well, I'm gonna give the
driver an envelope, and I'll have some money in
there." I says, how much do you need? He says, oh,
fifty dollars would be fine. Of course, you've got
to remember, you could rent a hotel room in
Monterey for three dollars then, you know, and you
could eat for a dollar and a half. Yeah, that was a
lot of money. So I said, well he'll have the money.
He says, well I sure thank you and so on. Well a
friend of mine there overheard
the conversation and he says, you got to send
somebody some money in Monterey? I said, yeah. He
says, where does he stand? I said, he says he's at
the Hotel Monterey. He says, yeah. He says, I got a
friend there that runs a bar in the hotel. He said,
if you want me to, we can call him, and he'll give him
the money, and you can just send this money to my
friend. I said, that'd sure be a lot easier. So he
calls this guy down there and tells him, go up in the
hotel and give $50 to this man. Well, the guy he's
talking to doesn't speak much English, see. So a
little while, the phone rings again.
He called me the phone. I said, hello, Garner? He
said, yeah, this is the head again. I said, yeah,
what can I do for you? He said, listen, don't send
that money. I said, what's the matter? He says, you
know, he says, some damn fool muskin just knocked
on my door and asked if I was A.W. Davis. And I said,
yes. He says, he handed me $50 and turned around and
walked off. He said, don't send that money.
But anyway. Very good, very good. I've got to tell
you one thing about Earl Rudder. I know you know a
lot more about Earl Rudder than I do. No, no. I was on
the board of the former student association one
year or two years or whenever it was when Mr. Rutter
was president. And it was back during the time when
we were having all this student unrest on the
campuses of the United States. And he met with us
one time with our board And you know, Jim Rutter is
pretty much for calling spades spades. And he told
us, he says, you don't ever have to worry about us
having these problems at Texas A&M like are
happening all over everywhere else. He says, we
don't have a bunch of wild-eyed professors here.
And he says, we're not going to have. He says, some
of these security checks that we run before we hire
anybody from the instructor level up, they might
be illegal. But we do them anyway, and I'll
guarantee you we're not going to have that problem
here at Texas A&M.
He's dead, everybody dead, but that's what he
said. And I remember a few times saying, too, if
there's ever a problem, the guy that's going to be
walking in front of the group to stop the problem is
talking to you right now. In other words, you're
going to have to deal with me, one way or the other.
And that was very, very important. Well, I've got
two or three concluding questions, but let's go on
to the Cadillac bar before we do that. How did you
get connected with it and tell me about it and
describe it? I sure will. It
belonged to my first wife's father. His name was
Mayo Besson. Spell the last name. B-E-S-S-A-N.
B-E-S-S-A-N. He was from Louisiana. And he had
come down there in the middle 20s, opened up a
place. Anyway, and he had reached, oh gosh, he was
in his middle 60s or so, or 70s, almost 70, 65 to 70,
when I got married. And he'd had a man that had
worked for him for years over there that had had a
heart attack, another Louisiana man. And he
really didn't, he was thinking about closing the
place up. But it was kind of a legend over there. And
I was working on this side, and he approached me to
see if I might be interested in going over there and
going to work. I said, I think I would, but I'd like
to think about it a little. I talked to the man that
I'd been working for who was an old family friend
and so on and so forth, and he told
me, he says, Porter, it's a great opportunity for
you. And he says, I don't
want you to leave here, but I think it would be a
great move.
And he says, but one thing you have to remember, you
stay on one side of that bar or the other. Don't try
to work both sides of it. And so I did. I went over
there and I went to work. This is what year? 48? Last
part of 47. Oh, excuse me. Here, Benjo. Yellow.
So anyway, I went over there and started working
for him. I didn't know much about the business, but
I learned and met a lot of friends, made a lot of
friends. And we went through the flood over there,
washed everything out, out of business for nine
months,
and then reopened. And shortly after that, He
decided that he was going to get out of the business
and he gave me an opportunity to buy it from him with
the 10-year payout, which I was glad to have
because even though he and I got along fine,
It's not easy sometimes to run a place and have the
complete responsibility but not have complete
authority.
And anyway,
we averted any kind of problem and funny thing is
fate would have it at a ten year payment
And he died 20 days after I made my last payment. And
to people who knew him and me, I always had said he
wasn't going to die until he got his last payment.
Anyway, he was a fine man. We got along well. But it
was a legend institution down there. Describe
where it was and describe it physically. All
right. It was about three blocks into Mexico. It
was a
bar room. It had a long bar, about a 30-foot bar. at
least 30-foot bar. And in the main dining room
there in front of the bar was about,
let's see, about 20 tables, and then another room
behind it that had about another 20 tables, and
then an old like a dance floor, which we didn't
utilize at all back before, which at one time had
been a gambling room before gambling went out in
Mexico in 37, I believe, 37, 38.
But anyway, we served mostly
American foods. So it was both drink, both
refreshments and? Oh yes, yes. We, it's like most
of those places, the food's what draws the people,
the drinks are where you make the money. But we
always felt like we gave everybody a real run for
their money. We were very reasonable price-wise.
Who were some of the famous visitors you recall? I
had lots of those. One time I had five governors in
there. I had the Texas governor, the New Mexico
governor, and three Mexican governors in there at
one time. I had lots of celebrities that had been in
and out.
had
politicians of all kinds. I mean,
Jimmy Carter was there before he was president,
John Connolly, all of the Kennedy clan,
distaff side. And Lady Bird was a regular down
there with her family. And let's
see.
I'll never forget the time. Now this is an unlikely
combination when the Roy Rogers and Jack Dempsey.
Now, would you imagine those two together? A
friend of mine down there was having them down to go
hunting with him. And he brought them across the
river and told me that he was going to come across
with them. And he said, I want you to do something
for me. And he told me what it was. And I said, OK. So
they came in that morning just about the time I was
opening up and he introduced me naturally to them
and I said, what did you gentlemen like to drink?
And Dempsey said, I don't know, an old-fashioned
or something. He said, I'd like an old-fashioned.
And so Roy Rogers says, I'd like a Sarsaparilla.
And I said, yes, sir. And I reached down and handed
it to him. We didn't normally have them, but he had
tipped me off ahead of time that that's what he was
going to ask for. Well, I'm going to tell you that
guy's eyes got about that big, because he really
didn't expect anybody to have a source of perilla.
But anyway, Phil Harris used to come quite often.
He loved to hunt quail, and he'd come down there.
Now that's a guy that could handle that booze and
not show it at all. He's something else. Come in and
he'd think, I'll have a double Jack Black. And
Dizzy Dean. Of
all the famous people that came, who was the most
enjoyable?
the most pleasant, positive? Probably Leo
Carrillo.
He was,
of course, being Mexican, he had that ambience
with all of the people that worked there and
everything. And I remember
one time somebody asked him, Of course, you have to
really understand the vernacular, but somebody
asked him, says, are you Spanish, Mr. Carrillo? He
said, no, I'm puro pelado. Pelado literally means
hair, but pelado is just part of the group or the
barrio or something. I'm one of the people. That's
right. He said, no, yo soy puro pelado. Did any of
the celebrities ever become troublesome? No, not
really. Never did. Never did. The
nearest one was
John, I've
forgotten his name. I've forgotten his last name
now. I remember he played in in the movie The Flying
Tigers with
John Wayne, he was the pilot that was a hot shot or
something. I can't remember what his last name is.
John Carroll. John Carroll. He was a little but it
was not really bad. All right, so you were managing
that from 48 till when? 47, well, the last part of 47
till I retired in 1980. I actually, I gave it to my
employees when I left. And Aggies knew where it
was. Oh, yes. I mean, Gus, Morris
always said, now this is the Aggie table. He didn't
tell everybody that. When you go down there, you go
to the Aggie table.
Oh, he was a great bunch. Well, I'm about to the end
of the questions I can think of. And here are some
kind of summary questions.
What has it meant to your life that you attended
Texas A&M? What difference has it made? All the
difference in the world. I can't think of any one
happening.
that has probably had a bigger influence, other
than family or children, but I can't think of
anything that had a bigger influence on my life.
What did you learn at Texas A&M? We're talking
about learn now. I know what you mean. I know what
you mean.
I think I learned to judge people.
I really, if
I'd say I have any quality, I would think I'm a
pretty good judge of people.
So what are the qualities of being a good Aggie? Beg
your pardon? a good Aggie has what kind of
qualities?
Well, he's true. He's
true to himself,
and he's true to his friends,
and he's
responsible. He's truly He's just a true man,
that's all. Let's make believe that someone walks
to your door tomorrow and hands you a check for a
million dollars and attaches only one condition
to that check.